# Applying K-means Clustering for Mall Customer Segmentation



Customer segmentation is a crucial aspect of targeted marketing strategies, especially in retail environments like malls. This project explores the application of K-means clustering to segment mall customers based on their demographic attributes and spending behavior. The goal is to assist mall management in devising personalized marketing initiatives and optimizing resource allocation.

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Methodology](#methodology)
- [K-means Steps](#k-means-steps)
- [Results](#results)
- [Discussion](#discussion)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)
- [How to Run](#how-to-run)
- [References](#references)

## Introduction
Customer segmentation plays a vital role in understanding and catering to the diverse needs and preferences of mall visitors. K-means clustering, an unsupervised learning algorithm, provides an effective method for segmenting customers based on shared characteristics. This project aims to leverage K-means clustering to identify distinct customer segments within the mall dataset.

## Methodology
The methodology involves several key steps:
1. **Data Preprocessing:** The dataset containing customer attributes such as gender, age, annual income, and spending score is cleaned and standardized.
2. **Determining Optimal Cluster Number:** The elbow method is employed to identify the optimal number of clusters, providing insights into the underlying structure of the data.
3. **K-means Clustering:** The K-means algorithm is applied to segment customers into distinct clusters based on their demographic attributes and spending behavior.

## K-means Steps
The K-means clustering algorithm involves the following steps:
1. **Select Initial Cluster Centres:** Randomly select $k$ data points as the initial cluster centers.
2. **Calculate Euclidean Distance:** Find the Euclidean distance of each data point towards each cluster center.
3. **Assign Data Points to Nearest Cluster:** Assign each data point to the nearest cluster based on the calculated distances.
4. **Update Cluster Centers:** Recompute the new cluster centers by taking the mean of the data points belonging to that cluster.
5. **Repeat Steps 2 to 4:** Repeat steps 2 to 4 until convergence is achieved.
6. **Stop the Process:** Stop the process when zero convergence is reached.

## Results
The analysis reveals the optimal number of clusters, indicating distinct customer segments within the mall dataset. These segments encompass diverse demographic and spending characteristics, providing valuable insights for targeted marketing strategies.

## Discussion
The findings highlight the efficacy of K-means clustering in customer segmentation for mall environments. By identifying homogeneous customer groups, malls can tailor their marketing strategies to meet the needs and preferences of different segments.

## Conclusion
This project demonstrates the utility of K-means clustering for mall customer segmentation, providing actionable insights for mall management in optimizing marketing efforts and enhancing customer satisfaction.

## How to Run

To run the Mall Customer Segmentation project, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the Repository:**
```bash 
git clone (https://github.com/Alfastrek/Mall-Customer-Segmentation)
```
2. **Install Dependencies:**
```bash 
pip install numpy pandas seaborn matplotlib jupyter

```
3. 3. **Run the Jupyter Notebook:**
```bash
jupyter notebook Mall_Customer_Segmentation.ipynb
```
4. **Follow the Instructions in the Notebook:**
- Open the `Mall_Customer_Segmentation.ipynb` notebook in Jupyter.
- Follow the instructions provided in the notebook to execute the code cells.
- Explore the results and insights generated by the analysis.


## References
- Han, J., Pei, J., & Tong, H. (2022). *Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques*. Morgan Kaufmann.
- Jain, A.K., & Dubes, R.C. (1988). *Algorithms for Clustering Data*. Prentice-Hall, Inc.
- Narayana, V. Lakshman, et al. (2022). "Mall Customer Segmentation Using Machine Learning." *2022 International Conference on Electronics and Renewable Systems (ICEARS)*, pp. 1280--1288. DOI: 10.1109/ICEARS53579.2022.9752447.
